hey it's Caroline today I want to take
you through a quick effective but and
hip massage video all you'll need are
two yoga tunic balls
tennis balls or if you're really crazy
lacrosse balls I highly recommend yoga
to nut balls they are about 11 dollars
on yoga tuna.com and they're really easy
to travel with and use for all of these
videos so when you're ready to get
started you're just going to lay down on
the mat and bring the balls to the
center of the buns and let the hips rest
on the mat bring your feet together like
butterfly and you can let your hands
rest by your sides
so here the balls are just applying
pressure into the hips and the buns and
I just want you to feel that pressure
and take a nice deep breath in dia and
exhale from here with both balls in the
button you're just going to sway the
hips side to side and of course the
balls are going to move as you move so
you might just want to have your hands
close by to readjust as needed so
rocking side to side this is a gentle
way to warm up the muscles for the deep
tissue massage we'll be getting into in
one minute so rocking side to side
readjusting as needed I have to warn you
that some of the techniques we might do
today will be intense so of course if
you feel any sharp pain or electric pain
stop check in with your doctor before
proceeding but if you feel that deep
tissue self massage that's a good kind
of pain and should provide a sense of
relief good remove one ball from the bun
and place the other ball in the middle
of the glute with that ball there let
your knee fall to the side one knee
faces the ceiling so you're in kind of a
figure four position from
you're just going to circle the hip kind
of like you're playing air guitar and
let the ball massage that butt cheek and
you have to readjust your body a whole
bunch but hopefully it feels good so go
slower or faster as needed big circles
making sure to breathe and get deep into
the tissue from here rest the ball into
the glutes and I want you to come up
into what I call fireplace pose so one
thing is bed towards the sky and that
ball is into the butt tissue and you're
just going to rock side to side with the
hips this position provides a little
more pressure so you should definitely
feel this it might be rather intense so
move slowly and keep breathing good find
a spot that needs a little bit of extra
attention so maybe you cycle a lot and
the glute Meads are really tight place
the ball right there straight the bottom
leg keep the top leg bent with the
bottom leg straight all I want you to do
is push down into the floor and flex
your glutes then relax
good try that again push down into the
floor flex the glutes and relax
move the ball uptown or downtown find a
little another spot that needs another
little extra love and try that again
push down with the thigh and relax good
one or two more push down and relax now
with this bottom leg I want you to make
bicycles so you're keeping the ball
pressed against the glute and now you're
moving the foam light and this would
really help if you have any hip pain
knee pain lower back pain it's hard
definitely feels intense good so keep
that cycling motion going and then
straighten the leg lay back down on the
mat bend both the knees and come back to
Center so you can remove the ball from
the bun and you should notice the
difference between one side to the next
we're going to switch the other side so
ball goes in the center of the glute on
the other side one knee Falls the side
one these stays facing straight up and
then from here I just want you to make
those circles with the hips so letting
the ball trace the bun going in all
directions all around the glute making
sure to breathe and if you you should
feel that good hurt that muscle heart
nice and then breast there and I'm just
going to turn to the side for the sake
of the video so ball is in the bun and
you're laying down your side from here
want you could come up into that
fireplace pose and then just side to
side with the hips so letting the ball
work into all of that tight tissue and
tension that has been created over time
through sport through work or stress Oh
straighten the bottom leg and find a
spot on that glute that needs a little
extra love from here with the straight
with the leg straight push down into the
floor and then relax good try that again
press the thigh down into the floor and
relax good from here you can go uptown
or downtown find another extra spot that
needs to love and try that again
push down to the ground strong leg and
relax and last time push down to the
floor
and relax from here take this bottom leg
and make cycling motions with the foot
so really move the leg in all directions
up and down good and try the other way
the balls press up against the hip it's
pretty intense
good it's a big cycling motion and then
return the leg back to straight lower
the body down to the mat and roll back
on your back remove the ball from the
bun let the feet come to butterfly take
one hand on the heart one hand belly
close the eyes and take a deep breath
into the belly and let it out try that
one more time deep breath
and out
return the knees to center slowly roll
up doing this video series on a regular
basis will help you have healthier
happier muscles and prevent injuries
before they stop you I hope you enjoyed
this video check out Caroline Jordan
Fitness comm for more thanks again and
I'll see you soon bye